dogstatsd: add dogstatsd internals documentation + dogstatsd_queue_size template doc. (#5392)
DataDog/datadog-agent: docs/dogstatsd/internals.md

> ![Dogstatsd Internals Schema](internals_schema.png)

Author: I've attached the .svg thinking that Gdoc was capable of loading it for edition but I was wrong. Maybe I can properly title this drawing and mention here how to find it for employees? 
Something along this line:
Agent-Core: to edit this drawing, look for Dogstatsd - Internals - Schema in the Agent Core misc folder.

WDYT?

> ![Dogstatsd Internals Schema](internals_schema.png)

Reviewer: sounds good to me 👍 We need to make this editable in the future

A note starting with _`Datadog employees`_ would work I think. And you can write down the path to the file in google drive's file hierarchy I guess.

## Packet

> In Dogstatsd, a Packet is a bytes array containing one or multiple metrics in the Dogstatsd format (separated by a \n when there are several). Its maximum size is dogstatsd_buffer_size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Dogstatsd, a Packet is a bytes array containing one or multiple metrics in the Dogstatsd format (separated by a \n when there are several). Its maximum size is `dogstatsd_buffer_size`.
```

## PacketAssembler

Input: a datagram from an UDP socket
Output: a Packet containing multiple metrics packed together, separated by a \n

> The PacketAssembler is gathering multiple datagrams into one Packet of maximum size dogstatsd_buffer_size sending it to the PacketsBuffer, avoiding to run the whole parsing pipeline with only 1 metric per packet. The bytes buffer used comes from the PacketPool, avoiding having to re-allocate bytes buffer every time. Please note that the UDS pipeline does not use the PacketAssembler because each UDS packet also contains metadata (origin tags) which are used to enrich the metrics tags, making them impossible to be packed together by the PacketAssembler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PacketAssembler gathers multiple datagrams into one Packet of maximum size, `dogstatsd_buffer_size`, and sends it to the PacketsBuffer which avoids running the whole parsing pipeline with only one metric per packet. The bytes buffer used comes from the PacketPool, which avoids re-allocating the bytes buffer every time. 

**Note**: The UDS pipeline does not use the PacketAssembler because each UDS packet also contains metadata (origin tags) which are used to enrich the metrics tags, making them impossible to be packed together by the PacketAssembler.
```

> The PacketAssembler is not allocating a bytes array every time it has to use one, it is getting it from a pool containing pre-allocated ones. The pool is never empty, it takes care of allocating a new bytes array when it’s needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PacketAssembler does not allocate a bytes array every time it has to use one. It retrieves one from a pool containing pre-allocated arrays and this pool never empties. The PacketAssembler allocates a new bytes array when it’s needed.
```

> Once this bytes array has been fully assembled by the PacketAssembler, it is sent to the rest of the Dogstatsd pipeline and its ownership is transferred to each part using it (PacketsBuffer, Worker). Eventually, the Worker takes care of returning it to the pool when it has processed its content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once fully assembled by the PacketAssembler, the bytes array is sent through the rest of the Dogstatsd pipeline and ownership is allocated to each part using it (PacketsBuffer, Worker). Eventually, the Worker takes care of returning it to the pool when the part has processed its content.
```

## PacketBuffer

Input: a Packet containing one or several metrics in the Dogstatsd format (separated by a \n)
Output: multiple Packets send in a row to the Worker

> The PacketsBuffer is buffering multiple Packets (in a slice), this way the parsing part of the pipeline is going through several Packets in a row instead of only one each time it is called. This leads to less CPU usage. PacketsBuffer sends the Packets for processing when either:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PacketsBuffer buffers multiple Packets (in a slice), this way the parsing part of the pipeline is going through several Packets in a row instead of only one each time it is called. This leads to less CPU usage. PacketsBuffer sends the Packets for processing when either:
```

> the buffer is full (contains dogstatsd_packet_buffer_size, default value: 32)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The buffer is full (contains `dogstatsd_packet_buffer_size, default value: 32`)
```

> or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or

```

> a timer is triggered (i.e. dogstatsd_packer_buffer_flush_timeout, default value: 100ms)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A timer is triggered (i.e. `dogstatsd_packer_buffer_flush_timeout, default value: 100ms`)

```

> The PacketBuffer is sending it in a Go buffered channel to the worker / parser, meaning that the channels can buffer the Packets on its own waiting for the worker to read and process them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PacketBuffer sends it in a Go buffered channel to the worker / parser, meaning that the channels can buffer the Packets on their own while waiting for the worker to read and process them.
```

In theory, the max memory usage of the PacketBuffer is:

> packet buffer size * packet size * channel buffer size

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* packet buffer size * packet size * channel buffer size
```

> dogstatsd_packer_buffer_size * dogstatsd_buffer_size * dogstatsd_queue_size

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `dogstatsd_packer_buffer_size` * `dogstatsd_buffer_size` * `dogstatsd_queue_size`
```

> 32 * 8192 * 1024 =  256MB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* 32 * 8192 * 1024 =  256MB
```

## Worker

Input: slice of Packets
Output: MetricSample sent

> The Worker is the part of the Dogstatsd server responsible for parsing the metrics in the bytes array and to turn them into MetricSamples. The server spawns multiple workers based on the amount of cores available on the host (the amount of workers created is equal to the number of cores on the machine minus 2. If this result is less than 2, 2 workers are spawned).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Worker is the part of the Dogstatsd server responsible for parsing the metrics in the bytes array and turning them into MetricSamples. The server spawns multiple workers based on the amount of cores available on the host (the amount of workers created is equal to the number of cores on the machine minus 2. If this result is less than 2, 2 workers are spawned).
```

> The Worker is using a system called StringInterner to not allocate memory every time a string is needed. Note that this StringInterner is caching a finite number of strings and that when it is full, it is emptied to start caching strings again. Its size is configurable with dogstatsd_string_interner_size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Worker is using a system called StringInterner to not allocate memory every time a string is needed. Note that this StringInterner is caching a finite number of strings and when it is full it is emptied to start caching strings again. Its size is configurable with `dogstatsd_string_interner_size`.
```

The MetricSamples created are not directly sent to the Agent aggregator but first to a part called the Batcher.

## Batcher

Input: MetricSample from the Worker
Output: slices of MetricSample sent to the aggregator

> The role of the Batcher is to accumulate multiple MetricSamples before sending them to the Agent aggregator. Every time it has accumulated 32 MetricSample, it sends them to the aggregator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The role of the Batcher is to accumulate multiple MetricSamples before sending them to the Agent aggregator. Every time it has accumulated 32 MetricSample, it sends them to the aggregator. These 32 MetricSamples are sent in a channel buffering 100 sets.

```

> These 32 MetricSamples are sent in a channel buffering 100 sets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The size of a MetricSample depends on the size of the host hostname; its metric name and its amount of tags. Based on hostname = 20 chars, metric name = 40 chars and tags = 200 chars, a MetricSample has a size of approximately 264 bytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The size of a MetricSample depends on the size of the host hostname, its metric name, and its amount of tags. Based on hostname = 20 chars, metric name = 40 chars and tags = 200 chars, a MetricSample has a size of approximately 264 bytes. In theory, it can use 844kb of memory.
```

> In theory, it could use 844kb of memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# DogStatsD

Information on DogStatsD, configuration and troubleshooting is available in the Datagdog documentation:
[https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd/][1]

**The documentation available in this directory is intended for Dogstatsd developers.**

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd/

# Dogstatsd Internals

![Dogstatsd Internals Schema](internals_schema.png)

## Packet

In Dogstatsd, a Packet is a bytes array containing one or multiple metrics in the Dogstatsd format (separated by a \n when there are several). Its maximum size is `dogstatsd_buffer_size`.

## PacketAssembler

Input: a datagram from an UDP socket

> Output: a Packet containing multiple metrics packed together, separated by a \n

Reviewer: (.md formatting)
```suggestion

Output: a Packet containing multiple metrics packed together, separated by a \n
```

## PacketBuffer

Input: a Packet containing one or several metrics in the Dogstatsd format (separated by a \n)
Output: multiple Packets send in a row to the Worker

The PacketsBuffer buffers multiple Packets (in a slice), this way the parsing part of the pipeline is going through several Packets in a row instead of only one each time it is called. This leads to less CPU usage. PacketsBuffer sends the Packets for processing when either:
* The buffer is full (contains `dogstatsd_packet_buffer_size, default value: 32`)
or

* A timer is triggered (i.e. `dogstatsd_packer_buffer_flush_timeout, default value: 100ms`)

The PacketBuffer sends it in a Go buffered channel to the worker / parser, meaning that the channels can buffer the Packets on their own while waiting for the worker to read and process them.

In theory, the max memory usage of the PacketBuffer is:
* packet buffer size * packet size * channel buffer size
* `dogstatsd_packer_buffer_size` * `dogstatsd_buffer_size` * `dogstatsd_queue_size`
* 32 * 8192 * 1024 =  256MB

## Worker

Input: slice of Packets

> Output: MetricSample sent

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Output: MetricSample sent
```

The Worker is the part of the Dogstatsd server responsible for parsing the metrics in the bytes array and turning them into MetricSamples. The server spawns multiple workers based on the amount of cores available on the host (the amount of workers created is equal to the number of cores on the machine minus 2. If this result is less than 2, 2 workers are spawned).
The Worker is using a system called StringInterner to not allocate memory every time a string is needed. Note that this StringInterner is caching a finite number of strings and when it is full it is emptied to start caching strings again. Its size is configurable with `dogstatsd_string_interner_size`.

The MetricSamples created are not directly sent to the Agent aggregator but first to a part called the Batcher.

## Batcher

Input: MetricSample from the Worker

> Output: slices of MetricSample sent to the aggregator

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Output: slices of MetricSample sent to the aggregator
```

Input: slice of Packets
Output: MetricSample sent

The Worker is the part of the Dogstatsd server responsible for parsing the metrics in the bytes array and turning them into MetricSamples. The server spawns multiple workers based on the amount of cores available on the host (the amount of workers created is equal to the number of cores on the machine minus 2. If this result is less than 2, 2 workers are spawned).
The Worker is using a system called StringInterner to not allocate memory every time a string is needed. Note that this StringInterner is caching a finite number of strings and when it is full it is emptied to start caching strings again. Its size is configurable with `dogstatsd_string_interner_size`.

The MetricSamples created are not directly sent to the Agent aggregator but first to a part called the Batcher.

## Batcher

Input: MetricSample from the Worker
Output: slices of MetricSample sent to the aggregator

The role of the Batcher is to accumulate multiple MetricSamples before sending them to the Agent aggregator. Every time it has accumulated 32 MetricSample, it sends them to the aggregator. These 32 MetricSamples are sent in a channel buffering 100 sets.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
